                    EyeDx(TM) Digital Vision Screening System
                               (Patent Pending)

Note: If using Notepad to view this file, turn on Word Wrap in the Edit menu.

Release Notes
Windows Version 1.5.2

These Release Notes contain important information regarding system configuration and help features. You may wish to print these notes once the software is installed. A separate Revision History document is also installed in the EyeDx Folder which gives details on changes for each version of the EyeDx software.

Software Licensing

The software now uses a license which contains a number of analysis runs and an expiration date. When the software is first executed you will be asked to enter your User ID, a License Code, and your Zip or Postal Code. This information should be supplied by EyeDx when you receive your system. 

The File menu includes new options to install or update a license, and to display your current license status.

The analysis run count is decremented only when a successful analysis is performed. You are not penalized for reruns due to bad images. The Run windows show the remaining analysis run count and expiration date. Be sure to renew your license before the expiration date. Your remaining analysis runs are preserved, so when you obtain and install a new license, your remaining count is added to the amount of runs in the new license.

IMPORTANT; The system clock MUST be set correctly when you install a license. The software will prompt you to confirm that the date is correct, and will give you information on determining what to do if the date isn't correct. Installing a license on a system that has an incorrect date and then later setting the date to the correct value may disable your license!  Also, do not set the system clock forward (into the future) and then run the EyeDx software. This may also disable your license. If you encounter this situation, contact EyeDx for assistance.

Other Notes

TipTool Help

EyeDx supports TipTool Help on certain buttons and controls. When you point the mouse pointer at an item in the EyeDx window, TipTool Help may display information about the item. 

Serial Ports and Troubleshooting Camera Connection Problems

If you are using a that is normally used for a Modem, disable any FAX software that may be installed. FAX software may conflict with other programs.  If the camera is turned on and connected, the EyeDx software will automatically detect which port to which the camera is connected.

If the software has problems connecting to the camera, you should make sure that the camera cable is plugged-in firmly on both ends. 

The EyeDx Properties window (found in the File menu) allows setting the camera connection speed to a slower connection rate of 57600 bps. If you encounter problems connecting reliably to the camera, you may want to try the lower speed setting. This setting is saved for future executions of the EyeDx software.

Warning: Never unplug the camera while running in the Automatic mode, especially while the software is erasing pictures. Doing so may corrupt the camera memory, and lock up the computer.

Picture Quality Checks and Warnings

EyeDx recommends that all pictures be taken using the "Best" quality setting. Refer to the camera manual for instructions on how to set the Picture Quality setting.

The EyeDx software will check each picture used for analysis, whether it comes from the camera or from a file. You will be warned when a picture was not taken with the Best quality setting selected, and the software will recommend that you retake the picture.

Reporting Options

This version of the EyeDx software offers three options for report display (display report in browser, don't display report, or display Summary Window). These options are selected in the Preferences window. 

The Summary Window is a new feature, that works in all of the Run modes. It is most useful in the Automatic Run From Camera Mode, discussed below.

The Summary Window will display the results of the analysis without the need to run the web browser. It should be used to quickly confirm that the images and analysis were correct. The window displays the Child's Name, the Referral Result, the two input image thumbnails, the annotated eye images, information about problems with the analysis, and a recommended course of action. The window also contains at least two buttons (depending on the Run mode).

In Run From Disk and the Manual Run From Camera modes, the Summary Window shows a "Done With Subject" button, which finishes the analysis and returns you to the Main Window. The "Display Report" button will display the full report in the browser, in case you want to print the report or examine the report in more detail. See the discussion of the Automatic Run From Camera mode for additional buttons that will appear in the Summary Window.

Custom Report Format

EyeDx offers you the ability to produce customized reports. In the Properties window, you can select the Custom Report Format from the Report Format menu. This enabled a button that displays a window where you may enter custom text blocks.

There are six text blocks available in the Report Layout window:

- Header
- Introduction
- Pass Result
- Refer Result
- Retake Result
- Footer
- Session Summary Report

You select the text block you want to edit from the menu above the text edit window. The Header is displayed at the top of the report, centered, in bold face, using a large font. The Introduction is in the normal report font (usually Times-Roman), and can be used for general information regarding the report. See the default text for an example.

One of the Pass, Refer, or Retake Result text blocks is printed on the report depending on the result of the analysis. This allows you to present different text for these different situations. See the default text for examples. Text surrounded by "{}" characters is automatically replaced with the value of the corresponding variable when the report is generated. Refer to the Advanced Features Guide for information on how to configure the software to use variables.

The Footer is always printed at the bottom of the report. A standard block of text and images provided by EyeDx will be displayed between the Result and Footer text blocks.

The Session Summary Report is a separate block of text which is used to output the overall summary of results for a session.

The Revert to Saved button will restore the text you currently have selected for editing to the last value you have saved. Pressing the Set to Default button will reset it to the default text provided by EyeDx.  EyeDx provides default values for all of the text blocks. You should customize them for your own use, and then Save the report Layout.

Note that pressing the Save button in this window is necessary only when you are finished editing all of the text blocks. To edit a different text block, just select it from the menu. Changes you have made to the previous block will be temporarily saved. All changes are applied when you press the Save button. 

Downloading and Analyzing

Running from Camera - Manual

This version of the EyeDx software offers two ways to analyze pictures directly from the camera. The Run From Camera button in the main window will allow you to download and analyze images that are already stored in the camera. The camera must be connected to the serial port and turned on before you press the button. Otherwise, the program will time-out and display a warning that it was not able to connect to the camera.

The camera has a small amount of built-in memory, and can also be used with a Flash Card. If you have taken pictures with no Flash Card in the camera (meaning they are stored in the built-in memory), and later insert a Flash Card, the EyeDx software will not be able to access the images in the built-in camera memory. Remove the Flash Card and re-execute Run From Camera. The software will then be able to see the images in the camera memory. Once you have completed this process, delete or move the images from the camera's memory before using the card. Assuming you have purchased the Flash Card, EyeDx recommends that you always use the camera with a Flash Card installed.

If you want to save the images in the camera on disk so that you can erase and reuse the Flash Memory card, turn on the "Copy Original Images to the Pimages Folder" option in the Preferences window. Selected files will then be copied from the camera into the Pimages directory automatically. You will be prompted to confirm overwriting image files if necessary. Note that turning on this option enables it for both Run From Camera and Run From Card or Disk modes. (Also see Disk Space Management, below).

Running from Camera - Automatic

This version of the EyeDx software also supports an automatic method of taking pictures and analyzing them directly.

The program will display a message that asks you to make sure the camera is connected and turned on. Do so before continuing. Once you continue, the program will find the camera and configure it for taking pictures. If it is able to find the camera, you and next asked to enter the name of the child. Once you have done this, the software prepares the camera for taking the "Up" picture. The window shows the software's progress is setting up the camera. Once it is ready, the window shows a picture of the proper orientation of the camera. Hold the camera as shown, and point it at the child's eyes. Use the attached cord and lens cap to make sure the camera is the correct distance from the child. When ready, press the Space Bar, Return, or Enter key to take the picture.

There may be a short delay between the time you press the key and the picture is taken. Wait till the flash goes off before moving the camera. The software will automatically get information about the picture, and will display a thumbnail of the picture. It will also tell you if the camera was the correct distance. If the picture didn't come out, or if the software recommends retaking the picture, press the Retake Picture button. Otherwise, press the Take Side Image button.

The software will again set up the camera and prompt you to hold it in the proper orientation (a picture shows the correct position). Pressing the Space Bar, Return, or Enter will take the picture, and as with the Up Image, you will be asked to confirm or retake the picture. If the picture looks ok, press the Analyze button.

The software will download the full images and then proceed with the analysis. Depending on your choice of report format, the software will do one of three things: display the normal report in the web browser, display a summary window with the results, or just return to the Name prompt. 

If you have selected the Summary Window for your reporting option, the Automatic mode will display the Summary Window, and will also give you the opportunity to immediately retake pictures if needed. The window shows a "Start Over" button which will delete the current two input pictures from the camera, and start over at the Up Picture window. You always have the option to Start Over.

In addition, if the software had problems analyzing the images, it may also show another button that says "Retake Up Picture" or "Retake Side Picture". These buttons allow you to throw away the single bad image, retake the picture, and rerun analysis. The software will not download the good picture again, since it keeps the good picture in memory if you do a retake.

Note that the Automatic Run From Camera mode will delete the images from the camera once analysis is complete, so it is recommended that you turn on the "Save Input Images" option in the Preferences window, so that you have copies of the images used in the analysis. See the Disk Management section below for more information.

Press the Cancel button (or press Escape) to cancel the Automatic Run From Camera mode and return to the Main Window.

To make use of the Automatic mode even easier, the program has a Property (see the Property window's General tab) called "Start Auto Camera Mode When Program Starts". If enabled, the program will automatically enter the Auto Camera mode when you start the program.

Running from Card or Disk

You may analyze images that are stored on your hard disk or on Flash Memory Cards. Images may be stored on your hard disk in several different ways. As described in the Running From Camera section above, the EyeDx software has an option that will automatically copy images downloaded from the camera into the Pimages folder as you are running the EyeDx analyses. This allows you to access those images at a later date for reanalysis.

The Run From Card or Disk window's Select Up Image and Select Side Image buttons use the standard Windows file chooser dialog boxes which includes previews of the image files.

The files displayed are the KDC files available in the Pimages folder. The Pimages folder is the standard location used by the EyeDx software for loading image files. You may use the standard navigation commands in the dialog to access image files stored elsewhere on your system. If you have the "Copy Original Images to the Pimages Folder" option turned on and you select images that are not currently in the Pimages folder, they will be copied to the folder.

Only KDC files, including those created by the Kodak Picture Transfer Utility, the EyeDx software, or copied from the Flash Memory are recognized. KDC files from Macs are also supported, as long as they have a ".kdc" extension (upper or lower case). KDC files include information about the camera settings used to take the pictures, and you will be warned if the image quality setting stored in the file is not the "Best" camera setting.

Using the Run From Card or Disk button, you can access images on Flash Cards or images that have been stored on your hard disk. See the following sections for information on each of the ways you can access disk or card-based images.

From Card using a PCMCIA (PC Card) Adaptor

This is the fastest method for transferring images from camera to your computer, but it is available only if your camera has a Flash Memory card and your computer has a PC Card (PCMCIA) slot. If so, you can use a PC Card adaptor to directly mount the Flash Memory Card as a "drive". You may wish to create an shortcut to the card and put it in the EyeDx Folder\Pimages folder for quicker access.

You can then use the Run From Card or Disk button, and open the images directly within the EyeDx program. In the file chooser dialog box, choose the mounted Flash Card's volume (drive) name.

If you want to save the images in the camera on disk as you are running the EyeDx analyses so that you can erase and reuse the Flash Memory card, turn on the "Copy Original Images to the Pimages Folder" option in the Preferences window. Selected files will then be copied from the camera into the Pimages directory automatically. You will be prompted to confirm overwriting image files if necessary. Note that turning on this option enables it for both Run From Camera and Run From Card or Disk modes.

From Images Moved to Your Hard Disk

You may also choose to copy images from the Flash Card directly to your hard disk by dragging the image icons to the Pimages folder that is located within the EyeDx Folder. For ease of access, you may wish to create a Desktop shortcut for the Pimages folder, so that copying or downloading files in KDC format to the Pimages folder is more convenient. Then, use the Run From Card or Disk button to access the images in the Pimages folder.

From Images Moved to Your Hard Disk via the Kodak Picture Transfer Utility

The Kodak Picture Transfer Utility is a separate program, supplied with the camera, that will download images serially, and save them in various file formats. The EyeDx software uses the KDC format, which is Kodak's file format for camera image storage. 

Select the following settings in the Utility's Preferences window:

- Camera Type: DC120
- The port that you have plugged the camera cable into (MODEM or Printer)
- The Speed setting should be set to "Automatic".
- File Conversion: KDC

The settings of the other options are up to you.

You will be prompted by the Transfer Utility to select a destination folder for the image files. EyeDx recommends saving the KDC images into the Pimages folder which is located inside the EyeDx folder. This is the default location displayed when choosing files in the EyeDx program's Run From Disk window. Do not save images as JPEG format. For ease of access, you may wish to create a Desktop shortcut for the Pimages folder, so that downloading files in KDC format to the Pimages folder is more convenient.

Once you have downloaded the images to the Pimages folder, you can then use the Run From Card or Disk button to load the images for analysis. 

Disk Space Management

The EyeDx software stores downloaded image files in the "Pimages" folder within the current session folder. These images are used by the Run From Card or Disk function, and usually occupy about 400K of disk space for each set. Once a set of images has been analyzed, you no longer need to keep the original image files on your disk.  You may wish to use the Windows Explorer to periodically clean out images that are no longer needed.

EyeDx recommends that you save your original images for the first few months that you use the software, in order to help EyeDx in analysis of problem reports. Once you have become comfortable with the software, you may want to turn off the "Copy Original Images to the Pimages Folder" option in the Preferences window to eliminate the need to periodically clean out the Pimages folder.

Reports

Reports are automatically stored in the "reports" folder within the current session folder. Images associated with the reports are stored in the "eyes" and "Simages" folders in the session folder. Total storage for a typical report, including text and images, is approximately 50K. 

Organizing Report Sets

EyeDx has implemented support for "sessions" which will help you organize your reports. Sessions are disabled by default. You can enable them by turning on the "Use Sessions to Manage Subjects" option in the Properties window.

Whether or not you choose to use sessions, all of your existing reports, and any future reports created when no session is active, are stored in a new "NonSession" folder within the EyeDx Folder. This folder is the default location for opening reports and images, so if you choose not to use sessions, your software will work as in previous versions.

Start a session by pressing the Start Session button in the main window, or in the Report Name dialog when running Auto Camera mode. Session names follow the same rules as report names. When you have named the session (it must be a unique name), all reports from that point are stored in a folder named with the session name. The software will also keep track of how many subjects have been measured during the session, and separate counts for Pass, Refer, and Retake recommendations. The name of the session, as well as these counts, are saved between invocations of the program.

You may wish to define variables that are prompted when you start a session. Some suggested variables are Site Name and Operator Name. Set them up so that they are prompted at the start of each session. Then add the variables to the Session Summary Report text block using the Custom Reporting Options dialog. Each time the session starts, the user will be prompted for these values, and each time the session same session is ended, they will be added to the summary report.

End the session when you have performed analysis of all subjects you want included in the session. Once a session is ended you cannot add more subjects to it. A session report will be written into the session folder. You will also be asked if you want to view the session report when you end the session.

The active session folder is used as the default folder when opening reports or images.

Exporting Reports

Reports and associated image files may be exported to floppy disks or other media. You may want to use this feature to archive old reports, or to exchange reports with other users or EyeDx. There are two types of export operations available: Regular Export, or Export for Emailing. Both are accessed via menu items in the File menu. Use Export Reports when copying reports to removable media. Use Export Reports for Emailing when you plan to send the reports and images to someone via email.

When you Export Reports, you are asked to select one or more report files to be exported. Use shift-click to select more than one folder. Once you have selected the reports, you are then asked to select the destination folder. This may be a folder or the top level of a volume, such as a floppy disk or other removable media. You may wish to create a new folder in which to store the exported reports. In either case, click on the name of the volume or folder, and press the Choose button. The program will then transfer the necessary files to the destination.

The Export Reports for Emailing performs a similar set of operations. The difference is that all of the reports and image files are written to the same folder on the destination, and the report files are modified so that the image links point to the same folder where the report is located. This is necessary as it is not possible to send folders via email, only files. Without the modifications to the report files, the recipient of the report would not be able to view it correctly.

Once the files are writtent to the destination, you should use your email program to compose a message to the recipient. Then, attach all of the files to the email message. Most email programs allow you to drag and drop the icons of the files onto the email message composition window. Note that some email programs limit the number of attachments, so it is advisable to export, compose the message, attach the files, and send the message for each report separately, remembering to delete the files in the destination folder before exporting the next report. Normally, a report consists of one report file, two scaled input image files, and eight eye images.  The EyeDx logo file is also used for standard report format reports. Note, however, that there may be fewer eye images depending on whether the program was able to analyze the photographs. 

EyeDx recommends that you configure your email program to encode files using the Internet standard MIME encoding. This will make it more likely that the recipient of the report will be able to decode it. Uuencoding, Zip, Binhix, and other formats may not be readable by all email programs. Use Apple Double format if your program allows it (that is MIME format).

Displaying Referral Results in Report Names

An option in the Preferences window will add a referral result prefix to the report name. This prefix will automatically cause  report names to be sorted by referral result when you view report lists in the Finder or in a File Open Dialog and are sorting by file name. The referral prefixes are:

    "P_" for a Pass (No Referral)
    "R_" for a Referral
    "S_" for a condition that requires both images to be valid (i.e. "Second image 
         required")
    "U_" for Unclear images

Since the program does not know in advance what the referral code will be, it warns you if a report or reports with the name you enter and any of the referral codes already exist in the reports folder.


Contact Information

The About EyeDx button (or the About EyeDx Help Menu item) will display a window that lists information about the software and EyeDx Corporation, including address, phone number, and Internet addresses. The email and Web addresses in the About Window are clickable links, and will cause your web browser to compose email or display the EyeDx web page.

EyeDx Corporation
4370 La Jolla Village Drive, Suite 400
San Diego, CA 92122
Toll Free: (877) 32 EYEDX or (877) 323-9339
Tel: (858) 546-4717
FAX: (858) 546-4713
Email: info@eyedx.com
Web: http://www.eyedx.com


Version 1.5.2
7 February 2000
mfm
